## Original Abstract
One third of Pakistan is currently flooding today, taking at least 1100 lives and displacing 33 million people. This comes after the country experienced a heatwave in May and June 2022 subsequently causing melting of the mountain ice caps which coupled with the heavy monsoon rains have caused these floods. This indicates a crippling global climate crisis. Multiple countries observed concurrent heatwaves this summer. Even Antarctica was at its lowest sea ice cover in February 2022. In my project, I aim to find a pattern of "climate indicators" in the last five years before these floods. There are multiple global climate effects like the el Nino and La Nina effects, glacier shrinkage, overflowing of glacier laks, depression inthe Arbaian Sea that could've all caused these floods. I would like to attempt a causal analysis of these indicators on the floods and see if I can build a prediction model for the neighbouring countries of Pakistan that share similar geographical terrains. I would like to layout the timeline and the patterns that lead up to these disasters. Another direction, I would still like to pursue or touch upon is to analyze the impact of these natural disasters on the global sea level and air pollution.


## Updated Abstract after completion of the research: 
One third of Pakistan is currently flooding today, taking at least 1100 lives and displacing 33 million people. This comes after the country experienced a heatwave in May and June 2022 subsequently causing melting of the mountain ice caps which coupled with the heavy monsoon rains have caused these floods. This indicates a crippling global climate crisis. Multiple countries observed concurrent heatwaves this summer. In this study, we apply a four-step causal analysis model to find a pattern of "climate indicators" that can help predict floods. We analyzed data from 2000 to 2022 to capture both the 2010 and 2022 floods. We also studied two provinces of Pakistan separately as their terrain and hydrological systems are distinct. We found that snowmelt had an 81.4\% positive causal effect on surface runoff (floods) in the northern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. We also found that the moisture heavy winds coming from the monsoon depressions in Bay of Bengal have a positive causal effect on Precipitation in the Southern Balochistan and Sindh province. In 2022, these monsoon depressions became more frequent due to the global La Nina effect.  


We see that we've performed the first objective from our original Abstract
